PREPARATION

1. Place an oven rack in the center. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Prepare two, 9-inch baking pans by greasing them and lining them with parchment paper circles. Grease the tops of the parchment circles as well. (Note: If you like, you can make the paper liners by tracing and cutting circles from brown paper bags.)

2. In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat sugars and eggs for 3 to 5 minutes until fluffy and creamy. Add the softened butter. Continue beating until smooth and fluffy.

3. Place the diced beets in a heavy gauge pot. Cover it with 4 cups of water. Boil for 20 minutes until the beets are tender. Remove the beets from the boiling liquid; return the liquid in the pot to the stovetop. Continue cooking the beet water until it has reduced to ½ a cup of concentrated beet liquid.

4. In a generously-sized bowl (use one that is at least a four-cup size), combine 1/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons of the reduced beet liquid to the cocoa powder. Mix to a smooth paste. Stir in the buttermilk. Add the baking soda and salt—this will foam and bubble up, increasing the volume by about half. Pour this mixture into the butter/sugar/egg mixture. Beat until smooth. Add the flours, mixing at medium-low speed until smooth, scraping the sides of the bowl to ensure there are no streaks. Pour the batter into the two prepared pans. Place the pans in the oven and bake at 350 degrees for 30 to 35 minutes until the cake springs back when touched at the center. Remove the cakes from the oven; let them rest in the pans for five minutes. Turn them out onto racks. Cool the cakes completely while you prepare the frosting.

5. To make frosting: (NOTE: you will need to make two portions of this frosting recipe to completely fill and frost one cake) Combine the 3 and ¾ tablespoons of the Wondra flour with ¾ cup cream. Whisk over medium-low heat until the mixture thickens. Continue whisking over heat until the mixture balls up into a mass around the whisk; remove from heat. The mass will have the texture of soft playdough or mashed potatoes. Place this in a bowl to cool in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, in the bowl of a stand mixer with a whisk attachment, whip the butter and sugar on high speed for 10 minutes until the sugar crystals have vanished into the butter and the mixture is very light and soft. Add the vanilla and salt. Whisk another minute. Add the cooled dough; continue to whip another five minutes until you have a smooth, billowy frosting. Repeat this procedure to make another portion of the frosting.

6. To assemble: Cut the dome from one of the cake layers and save to eat as a snack. Place the now-level layer on a serving plate. Cover with a portion of frosting. Remove second cake layer from pan and cut horizontally into two layers. Place one layer over the already frosted layer; add the remaining top layer (domed) and cover all with the remaining frosting. Slice and enjoy!